I got you, Rich.
I got you.
Well, okay.
Well,
we have a double intro and the wrong
intro both times.
Well,
at least I think it's the wrong intro.
I prefer the Wookie intro and the Qara
outro.
For those who haven't seen it,
we have played it a number of times
here recently.
It's really for the vlog on the blog
that I do with Kevin once a week.
But it is really spectacular.
Anyway, it's good to be here, Family Hour.
We've got a full cast of characters up
there without snow, which is a good thing.
Kevin, how are you?
Doing well, doing well.
Okay,
you still got your eagle hanging in the
tree?
Yeah, he's there today for sure.
Okay, yeah, showing him off.
No, no.
This is a different shot.
Front yard.
Okay.
All right.
And Captain Kirk,
my count is that you only have one
more session.
Is that correct?
One.
I just thought that is terrific.
And that's going to be what, on Monday?
Yes, sir.
Oh, wow.
You have got to be delighted.
Yeah, you can imagine.
Oh, boy.
And if they tell you, you know,
we want to go for another round and
say, no, I don't think so.
I got a short life and I'll just
take it the way it comes.
I'm going to take it.
Yeah,
I'm going to take it the way it
comes.
I want to take it from here.
Thank you very much.
No, thank you.
You still got the four hairs that you
inventoried at the beginning of the
process?
I do, I do.
Right there.
I didn't have to go up and down
yet, so that's good.
Yeah.
You know,
this week I have been looking at the
beauty of Carmel.
They really had some nice weather up there
for the Clambake,
the AT&T tournament at Pebble Beach.
It was beautiful.
Yes, and then the sky fell out.
For the last four days.
Yeah, I guess it snowed for you,
didn't it?
It did.
It actually snowed, Carmel?
It actually snowed.
Stayed a little bit.
Stuck on the ground.
Wow.
That is just truly amazing.
That door behind you, Dr. Jeff,
does not look like a hospital door,
so you must be home again.
Home again.
Well, good.
I'm glad that you're here.
Do you have a decent week?
Catching up,
taking care of things remotely back in the
hospital on Monday for a double.
And, uh, so.
Does the double mean sixteen hours or
what?
A double means two weeks in a row.
Ah,
two weeks in a row without a day
off.
Uh, yes.
Wow.
And a shift for you is how many
hours?
Between ten and twelve.
And then if there are other complicating
factors,
I may receive seven to ten calls in
the evening.
So I have fractured sleep.
Mm hmm.
That's why to be a doctor,
you've still got to be young, right?
You're still in your thirties, right?
I might be in my thirties,
but the way I act is the square
root of my shoe size.
Forever young.
That'll work.
JB,
you're overlooking your vacation rental.
Is that the Blue Ridge Mountains that are
behind you or some semblance of that?
Okay.
Yeah.
It's a, it looks like a spectacular place.
You've got another one of Shannon's
shirts.
No, this one's a, Oh no.
Oh no.
Okay.
Oh yeah.
There we go.
All right.
Well, all right.
We're styling and Bill,
it's always nice to have you back.
Good to see you.
Thank you, Yada.
Shabbat Shalowm.
Look forward to doing this show.
This is going to be an interesting reveal
as we figure out who and why and
when of the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr,
my favorite song of all time.
And the things that we learned about it
are so different than what I suspected.
And we have a lovely Leah over here
to my left.
How are you, Leah?
Very well.
Shabbat Shalowm, everyone.
Yeah,
not even without a dog at the moment.
Yeah.
They're roaming around.
Yeah, they're at my feet currently.
Good to have you here.
We're going to play one of your songs.
We'll be back to you in just a
second.
And Rich.
Over there, yeah,
manipulating the controls.
That's our handsome king of the cables.
Thank you, Rich,
for not only getting this show,
but you brought us online right on the
money on time.
I mean,
we're going to have to get the big
bucks.
We have to ask Kevin who lost the
bet,
because I think they're betting on the
side of, did we start on time?
Did we start on time?
People were under on starting on time.
I looked up.
It was precise.
So congratulations.
It's not exactly easy.
Look, we have six, seven,
we have seven people,
eight people that are part of this
program.
And Leia is never on time.
Oh, no.
Leia is special in that regard.
Never on time.
Speaking of such things,
you have written about,
I think it's seven songs in the last
couple of weeks.
And the first of them came out and
they were reggae.
Reggae, yeah.
Oh gosh,
they were so delightful and happy and
upbeat and cultural and islandy.
I haven't done a visuals for those yet,
so we're not going to play one of
those,
but
My favorite of those is Babylon,
probably your favorite of that trilogy.
Mr. Babylon.
And then you came up,
I don't know if it's three, four,
five more,
where you've trained a very classical
singer.
Her name is Shalowm.
Shalowm, okay.
Shalowmy.
Okay, Shalowm.
And you've trained her,
and she is just remarkable.
She is a beautiful voice.
And I think you now have two of
those additional four that you have a
graphic score for.
Yes.
Correct.
All right.
And we're going to hear one of those
two today,
although I think your favorite of the four
is still being scored.
Yes.
Correct.
Okay.
So we're going to have a Leah song.
And is it Love in the Sea?
This is Love in the Sea.
Tell us about it.
I wrote this song after finding out about
Mizmowr
And I had felt profoundly weighted by
everything that I had learned.
And I just sat down and wrote.
That's how I deal with feelings.
And the words just came out.
I think I stayed up till three in
the morning writing it.
You have become a night owl.
You're working around the clock without
ceasing.
I don't know if you know this or
not,
and you would have no reason to know
it unless you're reading as fast as I'm
writing.
And we won't get to it tonight because
I think it's around the ninth and tenth
verses of the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr.
But we're reviewing that and
I'm taking a much more comprehensive
analysis of it because of the import of
it,
both for today and for three thousand
years ago.
What's the most interesting thing is
there's an interlude in it where after
Eythan Ha Ezrachy speaks of Yahowah's
nature,
talking about how loving Yahowah is and how
Yahowah is reliable.
He's always trustworthy.
And so we can depend upon him.
He then has Yahowah make an opening
statement about Dowd being his chosen one.
Dowd is the one through whom he enabled
the benefits of the covenant and that Dowd
is the one through whom he worked,
which is a pretty good thing.
You're gonna have a resume builder.
That's it, that'd be the one.
Pretty good start to a sound resume.
And then he goes on and says again
that Yahowah is loving and he's trustworthy
so that we can depend on what God
just said.
And then what he does is he tries
to garner Dowd's trust.
So it's one thing for Dowd to trust
Yahowah,
which he had fallen out of the
relationship with Yahowah and that needed
to be reestablished.
So it was important for him to reestablish
Yahowah's credentials.
But Eythan ha Ezrachy is delivering this
to Dowd.
And in delivering it to Dowd,
he wants Dowd to know that he is
not just some schmo that, you know,
slunk in and unannounced off the street
that he can do with what he wants.
He says,
and I want to tell you a little
bit about me, pal.
I want to tell you exactly who I
am.
And what he says is that he comes
out of the sea.
That's right.
And in the West.
And that he is very abrasive.
exceedingly agitating and aggressive.
And that it's his purpose is to wear
out and wear down the religious
antagonists so that the folks in the land
are more receptive to God's message.
And that he's just like throwing rocks in
a turbulent wave of the sea,
constantly banging against the shore.
And he starts there and says that Yahowah
actually lodged this.
Yahowah is in full support.
He is actually over the top in his
support of this man and of what he
represents coming from the West and out of
the sea.
But then it goes into something that is
just mind boggling that I had never even
contemplated.
And by the time we get there,
there actually is a name for the person
that Christians call the Antichrist.
There is a name for this individual that
is the integration between a man and
Satan.
And it's very clear when you look at
the four prophecies regarding him,
which are introduced in the eighty ninth
Mizmowr.
His name is Rahab.
And Rahab is a man who is demon
possessed with Satan himself.
And he is thwarted by another character
that we know quite well.
The Zarowa is the one who takes him
down.
And so this man from the sea actually
has quite a role pursuant to Dowd's
restoration.
And he interrupts the whole flow of this
thing right early on to say, you know,
you need to know I've got some skin
in the game here.
And that when I'm going to tell you
about yourself,
you need to know that I'm going to
be with you every step of the way.
And so it's a real eye-opener.
But anyway,
it happens to be he comes out of
the sea.
That's right.
Love and the sea is the weightiness of
our job together.
That it is.
And with that, should we play the song?
Yes, let's do.
Okay.
From then to now
What a presence.
Not that kind of love that closes in
or asks to stay the same.
This love moves mountains,
it carries seas.
What we couldn't hold, yeah, hold loose.
Wonderful.
That's a beautiful song.
Well scored.
Beautifully presented.
I love the lyrics.
I would say,
what is the one thing that has caressed
and also eroded Israel's shores for the
past six thousand years?
The sea.
The sea?
Yep.
That is why we use the metaphor.
And what side of Israel is the sea?
On the West.
It's on the West.
Indeed.
And so, you know,
I started this whole process with gowym.
Well, Yahuwdym and Yisrael,
my chosen people,
I started this process with gowym.
Everybody initially was a gowym.
I'm going to finish it with gowym.
And it is a man from the sea,
a gowym,
that caresses the shores of Israel after
he has broken up the...
All of those jagged places of religion and
politics.
And it is love.
God's love for his people that has put
the Goy in the position to do this.
And the Goy's love for Yahowah,
his beloved son, his people.
And his message,
his covenant family that has caused this
to be relentless, steadfast.
Just as one wave follows another.
And one wave has followed another over
time.
for all of that period of time.
You know,
there was a lyric in there that no
one probably would appreciate but me,
but you know how Owlam is used throughout
the Hebrew text to speak of forever?
That's not actually its primary meaning.
It means from antiquity.
It's from antiquity.
Forward through futurity.
And so it is a long view of
time.
It is speaking of the very...
individual and the way that god went about
keeping his people and his plan on track
is uh from antiquity all the way through
futurity god is a master of time and
has knows how to use souls inserted in
time to accomplish what he wishes to do
so that we all have more time
I only laugh because he invented both,
of course.
Yeah, it is.
It's a marvelous, marvelous lyric.
And I think that they that line about
we will proclaim Yahowah's name is probably
the best,
the most beautiful presentation yet of
proclaiming Yahowah's name.
You've done a marvelous job of of
training, if you will,
Shalowm to pronounce Yahowah's name and
Her vocal qualities are really marvelous.
But I mean, those are lyrics that,
you wrote the lyrics,
you created the melody,
you chose the instrumentation,
you trained the voice and caused all of
that to come together.
And that's one of seven songs in the
last few weeks.
And you know,
we ought to appreciate Yahowah's,
love of songs uh he his favorite person
in the world was a songwriter and a
singer Dowd and the when you look
at the treasure trove of the dead sea
scrolls it's the songs that are the most
dominant in them there are more copies of
the psalms and the dead sea scrolls than
there are uh Isaiah scrolls uh the great
prophet there's more than there are towrah
scrolls
So it's God Has a Love Affair with
the song, the songwriter,
the lyrics of songs,
and the fact that when you sing a
message like that,
it becomes more enduring.
It becomes,
it's a beautiful mix of brilliance and
beauty and joy.
emotion it's a emotional intelligence yeah
it's emotional intelligence and and it's
presented in a way that's far more uh
compelling and um memorable than it would
than any other form so they have staying
power too you look back throughout history
of how much of history and Twinkie is
put into music.
I mean,
even children's songs and stuff so that
people remember,
they don't know what it's about,
but everybody knows the song.
London Bridge is falling down,
whatever song you want to talk, you know,
that their songs are telling a story and
they have staying power.
I think Dowd was very smart about that,
about, you know, instead of just writing,
he put them to music so that they
would go out a long way.
Yeah,
I remember that when I was a very
young man,
there was one song that stayed with me
all of my life.
And I don't know the artist that performed
it.
I guess that's not very good of me.
But it's a Rudyard Kipling poem based on,
you know, Helen of Troy.
You know,
if a face can launch a thousand ships,
then where am I to go?
The love I've come to know, you know,
it's a it's written very similarly to what
you have done It's about a voyage on
the sea and about the love causing people
to to seek each other and to Explore
the world.
So that's my favorite of all time then,
you know very similar theme here So
Hard to beat that.
It's kind of like trying to start a
show,
the vlog on the blog after Wookie's
erudite introduction.
You say, how do we beat that?
You know, guys,
maybe we should just say thank you very
much.
It's been a lovely program.
Let's play the song as an outro.
Why ruin a good thing, right?
Right.
It'll be a short night.
We shall press on.
i would like to say craig uh yeah
that we want to speak about EHE Eythan
ha Ezrachy and ahmah ba'al and that this past week in
mizmowr nine um Dowd recognizes recognizes
Yada uh that was his uh Dowd's ode
to may Down recognizing you as being Kabowd
And it just, it really,
it fits in well with the reward,
which you presented in the last few days
of Mizmowr
and the term such as Shalem to finish
the job.
To finish the job.
Shalem is such a powerful term and it
was used so beautifully by him,
but that is the essence of what God
wants from us.
Such a simple thing.
But that is the essence of what he
wants from us, is to shalem,
to finish the job.
We can do that.
We're going to do that.
He did not.
Might I say, as a son, also,
the term yaqar, respected, valued,
what was poured out as a result of
initiating with Mizmowr
89 culminating in
Mizmowr
116 just is a.
A justification,
the word justification doesn't do
justification to the word justification.
One sixteen,
which is the subject of our family hour
last week,
is the greatest triumph words could
possibly allow.
He, Dowd.
says that he is yes i am Yahowah's
co-worker yes i am going to sacrifice my
body uh for the greater good and i
can't wait to do it i know i'm
going to be the passover lamb he says
i i'm fully aware that i am my
soul is going into shield i know what
the purpose is i know how i'm going
to fulfill Matsah and i'm a i'm you
know ready to go put me in coach
let's go uh it is
so comprehensive and so complete really of
everything that we have come to recognize
and appreciate about that ultimately he
finished the job he in a second of
three lives he um got up and got
going and he he fulfilled pisaki was
crucified uh fulfilling Pesach sacrificing
his body and and uh his soul took
our guilt into shield on Matsah and he
affirmed his role as the firstborn son of
God by fulfilling firstborn children on
Bikuwrym, all in thirty three C.E.
year four thousand.
Yeah.
And the hundred and sixteenth Mizmowr
affirms all of that.
It celebrates it.
It is it is a literally a feast
for the eyes and ears about all Dowd
represents as our savior and him knowing
it and him
Being all in, saying, you know, God,
I know this is what I'm going to
do,
and this is what I want to do,
and I'm delighted to be your co-worker.
Let's go.
What's amazing is that Yah's Amah,
with her ba'al,
initiated the whole process.
And then Eythan ha Ezrachy delivers
mizmowr
And then Mizmowr one, sixteen, seventeen,
when the words come out of Dowd, zabach,
zabach
That just gives me shivers down my spine.
That's just beyond what words can do
justice for.
You know, it's the great joy of
being where we are and doing what we're
doing,
that you get to discover things that have
always been there,
but no one has seen and yet are
remarkably beautiful.
And this transition from Dowd with his
wonderful forty eight years to him in his
fifty sixth
falling flat,
and you see what he did that was
so horrible.
And then you see him in the fifty-first
Mizmowr, blaming God, lashing out.
He's suffering from depression.
He's suffering from alcoholism.
He's suffering from prioritizing the
physical over the spiritual.
He has really sunk.
And then you read the last word picture.
this, uh, thirty-first Mashal.
And you hear the story of,
of Dowd celebrating the arrival of his
adoptive mother and what she represents
and how she told him, listen,
first thing we got to do,
we got you to have you figure out
who you are.
So I'm going to ask you this question
three different times over so that you
come to grips with who you are.
And then you need to stop drinking.
No more wine.
Wine isn't for you.
And then you need to think about what
you can do with that Basar body that
is so much better than what you have
been squandering it on.
And think about what you can accomplish.
Then she says, you know,
I'm going to clean you up.
I'm going to get you all properly attired.
This is going to pass and you're going
to rise again.
And she gave him the motherly pep talk.
But that was not enough to transition from
the fifty first Psalm to the hundred and
sixteen.
And so that's how I came back to
the eighty ninth.
became obvious to me that the only thing
that was capable of bridging that gap was
the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr,
and that it wasn't something that was
inspired by Yahowah four years after Dowd
had passed in year three thousand Yah,
nine sixty-eight BCE,
as the cornerstone of the temple was being
laid.
No,
it was delivered to Dowd while he was
still well into his first of three lives.
And it was used to get Dowd back
on track.
So that's when he wrote his most important
songs.
And it was used to prepare and raise
Solomon so that he was positioned to do
what he did.
And it was God's way of saying, no,
I'm going to have your back.
You know, I'm actually convinced,
and I'm sure that I'm going to find
it.
In fact, I've already found hints of it.
But when Dowd showed up a thousand years
later to fulfill Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym and arrived three to four
years prior to the fulfillment in
thirty-three CE,
I'll bet you anything that he wasn't
alone.
I bet there was somebody else with him.
It's just not God's way.
He is a king.
What do kings know about being all by
yourself?
Kings have somebody for everything, right?
They even have guys to fetch him a
cup of water.
So he had to have somebody who would
do the laundry, who would, you know,
make the tent.
He had to have somebody that was there
that he knew he could trust,
that he would just be comfortable with.
And so that it wouldn't be so frightening
knowing what he was up against and saying,
you know,
I know what you're going to do.
I'm going to do it too.
So, you know, this is your time.
A couple thousand years from now,
it'll be my time and you'll be there
for me.
So we'll get each other through this.
Uh, so I think I would have a,
I would have a different take on that.
I mean, um,
Dowd at eight years old was a shepherd
living out with this.
He could take care of himself.
I think he had people go back with
him to keep him from except, I mean,
he shows up and there's Romans and Judea.
I mean, he could lose his stuff.
He's got to hold it together for three
years.
He's got to be not out picking fights.
He's got to not be, you know, Hey,
let's clear these suckers out of here.
He was a fighter.
Yeah.
Somebody holding back.
Now.
Dowd was a a shepherd Rich when i
mentioned this to him earlier today um
because i i think that the role that
that supportive player uh of Dowd in those
three and a half four years uh was
likely the ebono who uh wrote the um
uh the uh Sermon of the Mount and
the all of a discourse um but uh
you know Dowd was a shepherd at eight
years old
Uh, he was seven deep, uh,
by the time that it was, uh,
his first life was over.
It was so far away from shepherding sheep
by the time that was done.
I mean, yeah, I'm sorry, but, uh,
when you read what he was doing and,
um, uh, and, uh, second Samuel six, seven,
eight, um, eleven and twelve, uh,
how he responded, uh, to the, um,
Absalom rebellion.
He wasn't, he was not self-sufficient.
Yeah.
The calluses were gone by then.
The calluses were gone, my friend.
And it's just, yeah, with style,
he's not going to allow anybody to be
left alone.
Dowd was in a terrible way.
He was suffering from depression.
It happens to most everybody at one time
in their life.
And he was self-medicating with,
with wine.
And he was trying to, you know,
it's so many people that his life is
meaningful.
And so they'll,
uh sex themselves that darn near to death
and that was happening too and he shirked
all of his responsibilities so i i i
think that it was would have been wise
even with Dowd recovering fully uh as a
result of the eighty-ninth minutes more
that he was accompanied that's i'll go and
read more and and um my guess is
we'll we'll find it it'll be there we
just missed it because we weren't looking
for it previously
Because in this particular time,
I think that Eythan Ha Ezrachy is
a descriptive title of a man that Dowd
had met a number of years earlier when
he was relocating the Ark of the Covenant
into Jerusalem.
I think he's Obed-Edom.
And, you know,
Obed means the one working and Edom means
man.
And so he's the one working for man.
He's the one working for mankind,
serving mankind is that name.
And we're going to find out what Eythan
ha Ezrachy means in a moment.
So the first time that I translated what
I thought was Dowd's Song,
the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr,
was for the initial volume of Coming Home.
Coming Home Volume One was the... Oh,
here I have it.
Yep, absolutely.
There we go.
It is in this volume.
This is Coming Home Volume One,
and that's where we're going to find...
The first time that I translated the
Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr,
I remember translating it because my wife,
Leah, was just beside herself.
I was in the midst of writing something
else, and I wanted to finish it,
and I just had projects up to here.
And you can do two or three things
at once, but you can't do ten.
And she said, no, this is the answer.
This is the most amazing thing you have
ever read in your life.
You need to deal with this.
So this is the Eighty-Ninth Psalm.
translate it now, incorporate,
I don't care what book you're writing,
work it into that book,
stop everything else, do it now.
And that found its way into Coming Home
Volume One.
Now,
you'll find it also because I fell in
love with it.
You'll find it in the To Dowd or
Not To Dowd chapter of that.
So it's towards the end of the Coming
Home Volume.
And since that time,
the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr has become the
cornerstone of really everything that I've
come to know and say.
It's how I came to recognize that Dowd
is the Messiah and Son of God,
who is our Savior, who fulfilled Pesach,
Matsah,
and Bikuwrym in his second of three lives.
So it's the key that unlocks the greatest
discovery in human history,
the most valuable discovery regarding
life.
So I've come to view it as second
only in importance to the towrah.
And as a result,
you'll find it featured in Yada Yahowah
volumes four, five, seven, and nine.
So that's another four times on top of
the ones who are at five already.
It's in Twistianity because it completely
negates the Christian religion in volumes
one, three, and five.
It's found in volume one of Babel.
It's found in volume five of Observations.
And I repeated it in volume three of
Coming Home.
And now I'm writing it again in volume
four of Coming Home.
Just for good measure.
Somebody would say that I have,
might say I have an obsession with this.
And I do.
It is here that we find absolute and
irrefutable affirmation from Yahowah that
Dowd is the chosen one.
that he is the firstborn son of God,
that he is the anointed Messiah,
that he is the sacrificial lamb.
He's the exemplar of the covenant.
He is the one through whom the covenant
was enabled.
He is our savior.
He is the returning king.
And even more,
Yahowah refers to Dowd as Elyown,
which is all things pertaining to the hand
and influence of almighty God.
Now that's a complete resume.
His throne,
which is the mercy seat of the Ark
of the Covenant,
will be as brilliant as the sun upon
his return on Yowm Kipurym in year six
thousand year,
which is six twenty two p.m.
as the sun begins to set in Jerusalem,
October second, twenty thirty three.
Now, obviously,
I didn't present the entire song on every
occasion,
typically highlighting portions of the
Eighty-Ninth Psalm that were pertinent to
the subject being discussed at that time
and those volumes.
And as a result,
I usually skipped past the introduction.
Not only because I didn't fully appreciate
its contribution to the story,
but also because I instinctively knew that
Eythan Ha Ezrachy was a message.
It's not a name.
It tells us something special about the
author, the co-author really of this song.
Surely the most inspiring lyrics ever
composed,
Sorry, Leah, but I do have a preference.
I love your songs,
but I still think the Eighty-Ninth is the
most inspiring lyrics ever written.
It might be a little tougher to put
it to a melody.
No, I could put that to a melody.
Okay, well,
you're going to get the chance.
So they were not co-authored or delivered
by someone so insignificant that there was
only one other mention of
elsewhere in the prophets or the writings
of this man's existence.
And so I began to say,
did that other occurrence,
if we really examine it,
does it tell us who he actually is
and what he was doing in the concluding
years of Dowd's first life?
Does it bridge the gap between father and
son and father and son?
At long last,
I now know who Eythan ha Ezrachy is.
And soon, well, you will too.
The answer is initially delivered in one
Melekym four.
That would be first Kings in the fourth
chapter.
This is what it says.
This is really interesting.
So God gave appointing and providing,
from Nathan,
cerebral acumen and the capacity for
wisdom, insights,
and understanding by filtering and
processing information, chakmah,
in proximity to Shalowmoh,
which means complete and rational
appreciation of reconciliation.
along with comprehension and insights
deduced from a logical analysis of
reasoned instruction and through
intelligent connections,
providing this for his benefit in an
ongoing, increasingly significant,
frequent, and very demonstrable manner.
A breadth and full measure
of thoughts and emotions,
of the inclinations and the motivations of
the heart and the mind,
especially judgment.
Comparable to the whirling and loose
granular sand,
which showing the way to the benefits of
the relationship was upon the lip and
therefore the words spoken by the one from
the sea.
Now there's more, but that's Melekym,
one Kings, four, twenty-nine.
I wonder who that guy could be.
The first thing is that I have come
to realize,
having done this job now for twenty five
years and having studied everybody that's
a significant player in God's story,
that there isn't a single experience of a
data dump.
Or God says,
you be wise and you are wise.
He says, you know, no reason to read,
no reason to, I mean, toss the towrah.
You don't need the towrah.
I've just given you the data.
You know, start speaking.
You know, wind the monkey up.
God never does that, ever.
Look at Moshe.
How long did Moshe spend before he even
came down and said anything to anybody?
Forty days.
Yeah.
Forty days on Mount Mowryah
One-on-one with Yahowah.
before he came down,
and he only came down with parts of
Bare’syth initially.
I mean,
the rest of the towrah was played out
over time, over forty years,
and the last book of it represents what
Moshe learned that he thought was
important for the people to know.
And so I'm gonna tell you that he
didn't do a data dump with Moshe.
He most certainly didn't do a data dump
with Dowd.
It was learning, growing, experiencing.
You know,
the hundred and nineteenth Mizmowr that is
so rich in its understanding of the towrah
or the nineteenth that's great in its
summation of it.
It's after studying these things.
And so with Solomon, God didn't say,
Solomon, you be wise.
No, this is how it happened.
So let's go through that again,
because it was a process.
And when you think it through based on
what this says,
I think the only reasonable connection
that you can draw is that he had
a mentor.
He had a teacher.
So God gave appointing and providing.
cerebral acumen, the capacity for wisdom,
insights,
and understanding by filtering and
processing information in proximity to
Shalowmoh
complete appreciation of reconciliation,
along with comprehension and insights
deduced from a logical analysis of
reasoned instruction through intelligent
connections.
In other words,
his mentor taught him how to think
providing this for his benefit in an
ongoing, increasingly significant,
frequent, and very demonstrable manner,
harbeh ma'od
A breadth and full measure of thoughts and
emotions,
of inclinations and motivations of the
heart and mind, especially judgment.
comparable to the whirling and loose
granular sand,
which showing the way to the benefits of
the relationship was on the lip.
And therefore the words spoken by the one
from the sea."
I think we have a candidate.
But he was instructed.
So the very person we're going to find
that delivered,
and not just delivered the Eighty-Ninth
Mizmowr, co-authored it.
to restore Dowd's relationship with Yahowah
so that Dowd would serve as the Passover
lamb and fulfill Matsah and therefore keep
the world, this planet,
from devolving into total death and
destruction is the same guy that worked to
help Solomon be perceived as wise,
to help him think.
And, you know,
for a little while it worked with Solomon.
He fell off the wagon too,
but it didn't work.
Yeah, he did, later.
Yeah.
But Solomon did judge between two women
correctly, I might add.
And he, as far as I know,
only wrote really one thing on his own.
We're going to find that Eythan ha
Ezrachy is responsible for thirty
Mashal
And that Solomon has one to his credit.
How many are there?
Thirty-one.
There we go.
I do think that Solomon actually wrote
something else.
I think Solomon wrote the Song of Songs.
Absolutely.
And finally now I'm understanding who he
wrote the Song of Songs to.
It was a love song because he was
approached by a man and a woman,
a husband and wife,
a surrogate mother and father.
And he was celebrating the love that they
modeled in his presence.
So I think it is.
I used to hate that song.
I read it in Hebrew.
And I said,
this is a song to Asherah.
A hundred percent.
This is a love song to Asherah.
And it is.
It is.
I didn't know who she was.
And it is.
And he uses the word Amah specifically.
Yeah, Amah.
Yeah, Amah's productive mother.
Craig, can I ask,
when do we think in the time frame
of things that Echad Melekym Arba,
one king's four, was written?
Well,
this portion of it had to be written
sometime before Dowd's passing and in his
first life and after Shalowmoh's birth.
So much after Bathsheba.
Somewhere in that period.
Dowd is fifty-six when he and Bathsheba
conceive.
He was no spring chicken.
Yeah, conceive Solomon.
He's born the following year.
Dowd,
his first of three lives ends when he's
seventy years old,
fourteen years thereafter.
And so, you know,
Solomon's not very old when he inherits
the throne.
I think he's, what, twelve?
I mean, so he's a young boy.
okay so that it has to be somewhere
in that period of time so we're looking
right around a thousand bce to answer your
question and therefore the mental
dexterity cerebral acumen and the capacity
for wisdom and understanding through
filtering knowing and processing
information
Chakmah again.
Chakmah is not just a flippant term that
is thrown out occasionally in Hebrew.
It is specifically targeted towards the
Choter.
When Dowd wrote of the, well,
I guess it wouldn't be Dowd that wrote
of the Choter, but I thought it,
since I've tried to credit the Mashal to
Dowd,
but when the Choter is being described in
the, what's the fourteenth Mashal,
the very first thing is that Choter's wife
is Chakmah, and he,
I think Chakmah is mentioned five times in
the
in the prose.
And when you come to the Choter and
Yashayah Eleven,
it is the very first attribute that the
spirit provides after being designated the
very spirit of Yahowah.
So it is exceedingly important to Yahowah
to have a person who is adroit as
it comes to Chakmah.
And his wife is also Chakmah.
And so therefore, the mental disparity,
the cerebral acumen,
the capacity for wisdom and understanding
through knowing, filtering,
and processing information of Shalowmoh,
complete and rational source of
restoration, was increased significantly.
Not by magic.
We've now heard about this relentless,
ongoing, steadfast,
demonstrable process that led to it.
Beyond and differentiated from the wisdom,
insights,
and understanding of all of the other sons
of antiquity before time, after time.
And also beyond all of the mental
dexterity, cerebral acumen,
and the capacity for intelligent
processing information, Chakmah again,
adversely bound up in Mitsraym.
representing oppressive and troubling
religious and political regimes.
So the greatest knowledge repository of
man at the time was considered to be
Egypt, which is Mitsraym,
but it stands for anything that is
oppressive religiously or politically.
which is all human civilizations at the
time.
He was wiser than anyone from any one
of those places and really the totality of
them.
He was actually and continually,
skillfully and prudently,
wisely and rationally taught.
That's that magic word right there to
deduce and comprehend insights.com.
That's not Chakmah now.
We are now dealing with a verb.
This is the process of teaching someone.
How to think.
Of everything pertaining to mankind and
all of this from this one man.
Min kol ha Adam.
All of it from one man.
From Eythan.
Ha Ezrachy
Ding, ding, ding.
Eythan.
Means the perpetually reoccurring.
Perpetually reoccurring.
Yes.
This was not his first rodeo.
Or hers.
This was not his first.
Perpetually reoccurring means for a very,
very long time in antiquity and for a
very long time into the future.
They perpetually reoccurring and
continuously deployed.
The long established and perennially
unrelenting.
Yep.
That sums it up.
Pretty much sums it up.
At that point, I said,
I think I know who that is.
But wait, there's more.
Oh, but there's more.
That's Eythan.
Yeah, that's Eythan.
ha Ezrachy.
He's the...
You read this and you say, OK, God,
you're just cheating.
And it's like, you know, it's like,
you know, what are they in the video?
I've never played video games,
but they have what do they call them
in video games?
Cheat codes.
Cheat codes in a video game.
We can get more lives or more power
or whatever it might be.
That's kind of what I felt like when
I was reading this.
Like, OK,
I'm a player in a video game and
God's got all the codes.
OK.
Ha Ezrachy.
The one springing up is a tree.
Now, normally you'd say, oh, come on,
a tree?
Why would you call me a tree?
Well,
the fact is that we know that the
role that I'm playing is the Tree of
Knowledge that leads back to the tree of
lives.
And we know that the Choter is presented
as the branch from a tree,
and he has roots,
and he is an observant branch,
and he is even with two of the
seven spirits,
he is called the Tree of Counsel,
Of da'ath, of knowledge.
So, yep.
ha Ezrachy is the one springing up
as a tree.
Coming forth prepared to shine at the
right moment with logical expressions
regarding the overall sequence of events.
Pretty much sums it up there, folks.
But God wasn't done.
Hyman
The one I confirmed would support me.
Kalkol to comprehend the full measure of things
and to complete the mission. Darda
The generational source of knowledge.
The offspring of
Machowl brought forth to question the
twisting and anguishing travail of men.
All right.
So that's three different.
Pardon?
That's three different people then, right?
Nope.
One person.
That is who he is.
He is defined by Eythan Ezrachy, by Hyman,
by Kalkol, and by Darda.
So I'll read that again.
So it's one person.
It's just an ongoing definition of that
person.
I was gonna say,
I'm gonna tell you everything that you
need to know about this.
So it's, he was actually and continually,
skillfully and prudently,
wisely and rationally taught to deduce and
comprehend insights of everything
pertaining to mankind and all from this
one man.
From Eythan,
the perpetually reoccurring and
continuously deployed,
the long established and perennially
unrelenting.
Ha Ezrachy,
the one springing up as a tree,
coming forth prepared to shine at the
right moment with logical expressions
regarding the entire sequence of events.
Hyman,
the one confirmed who would support me. Kalkol
to comprehend the full measure of things
and to complete the mission.
Darda,
the generational source of knowledge,
the offspring of Machowl,
brought forth to question the twisting and
anguishing travail of men.
Interesting.
Great question.
Captain obvious.
Yes, Twistianity.
Goddamn religion and Islam.
Yeah, pretty much it.
correctly accused as they say I represent
that statement.
This is like a case of Yah being
Captain Obvious.
Yeah, Yah being a little Captain Obvious.
But we all missed it.
And so his name,
his proper designation and reputation,
his renown,
his calling and conspicuous position would
exist throughout time.
Among all the gowym,
the non-Yisraelites who turn around and
are brought round.
He says that he was known among gowym.
Ain't that interesting?
And that he would exist throughout time.
Then he conveyed narrating,
thirty instructive Mashal word pictures as
memorable and wise parables and proverbs
to inspire astute leadership.
And his, shyr, his songs, remember that,
shyr,
songs about this journey through life will
be five.
Each bullish for the tribe,
learned and instructive,
empowering a thousandfold.
He will continuously speak of and
concerning the Eshym.
The trees.
Including the one reaffirmed as the
stoutest of them.
Who for the benefit of the relationship is
with those who are purified and white.
Inclusive of the restoring witness of
ezowb.
Pay attention to that too.
It comes back around.
hyssop
which to show the way comes out and
is extended, withdrawn to serve,
descending and produced as part of the
supportive structure, the walls,
the ceiling, the floor, the rafters,
the beams, all of the home.
And he will continually speak against the
beasts to mute them and over and about
that which takes flight.
even in opposition to the creepy creatures
slithering about,
and on behalf of that which multiplies and
increases,
causing incremental and exponential
growth.
Melekym, First Kings, four thirty-three.
So Yahowah has never provided,
as I've said, a data dump.
It's not his style.
He does not shortchange the process of
learning because that's the fun of it.
And if you don't engage in the learning,
then knowledge is of no use to you.
You have no value for it.
We become Chakmah wise by observing the
information God has provided,
closely examining and thoughtfully
considering it,
and then making the connections which lead
to understanding.
It is a process.
the one that is the result of filtering
through the available information in a
disciplined and rational manner,
just as this narrative suggests,
just as I have been doing for the
past twenty-five years.
Chakmah is actually the result of tabuwnah,
of logically deducing intelligent insights
by making rational connections.
And it was Eythan Ha Ezrachy
who Harbeh significantly and frequently
schooled Shalowmoh in this mental
discipline,
doing so in a very demonstrable manner.
One grain of sand whirling about in the
breeze does not a beachhead make,
but billions will eventually reveal the
benefits of the relationship.
This is what was imparted from the lip
of the man who emerged metaphorically from
the sea to restore the judgment of the
king and to inspire another who would rise
upon his fall.
Shalowmoh's wisdom grew over time as it was
cultivated,
increasing beyond those who had preceded
him.
Eventually,
as a result of the instruction of a
continuously deployed man,
renowned for his logical expressions,
the boy who would be king grew in
understanding,
well beyond that amassed by the oppressive
and troubling religious and political
realm of Mitsraym.
In the verbal form,
Chakam reveals that Shalowmoh was taught to
be wise,
receiving instruction on how to rationally
deduce logical insights and to be
discerning and prudent.
Further,
he learned what he came to know about
men from one man, Eythan, ha Ezrachy
The perpetually reoccurring and
continually deployed,
long established and perennial unrelenting
one.
who sprung up as a tree,
coming forth prepared to shine at the
right moment with logical expressions
regarding the entire sequence of events.
You see, Eythan Ha is Ezrachy
was a man whose reputation preceded him
and one whose renown would follow him
throughout time.
Second only to Dowd and through a host
of names and titles in addition to this
one, just like Dowd,
the person acclaimed for his teaching of
Solomon and revealing the AD ninth Psalm
for Dowd is the most frequently mentioned
player in Yahowah's entire story.
Of him, God revealed that his name,
reputation and renown,
even his calling and position would be
recognized throughout time
particularly among the gowym,
who came around to Yahowah as a result
of his message.
I know some of them.
Well,
I realize that most have been led to
believe that it was Shalowmoh who wrote
three thousand proverbs and one thousand
and five psalms.
The last name mentioned was Eythan ha
Ezrachy, not Shalowmoh's.
And as numbers,
they are completely out of sync with
reality.
Not only are there only thirty-one
Proverbs, not three thousand of them,
which is just one percent of that total.
One percent.
And a hundred and fifty Psalms,
barely fifteen percent of the other.
All of the Mizmowr are personally,
most all of them are personally accredited
to Dowd.
And Shalowmoh wasn't in a position to
provide any parental guidance,
which is the essence of the Mashal.
He was just a wee lad when he
became King.
And by the time that he became a
parent, he was off his rocker.
He didn't write them.
Therefore,
just as it is made irrefutably evident in
the dedication of the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr
that it was provided by Eythan ha
Ezrachy, as the last man mentioned,
it is evident that he is being credited
with writing thirty of the thirty-one
Proverbs,
and that he is being credited with writing
thirty of the thirty-one Proverbs and
having been
claimed, well,
I guess I should say with one being
claimed by Solomon,
that would be all of them, wouldn't it?
And it makes perfect sense since he is
the husband of Dowd's surrogate mother,
and Yada is literally defined by Eythan ha
Ezrachy.
It is the advice provided to Dowd and
then Solomon
regarding Yahowah that this is proclaiming.
Now, while Mashal proverb is definitive,
shyr is not to be confused with
Mizmowr Psalm.
It's actionable root shuwr speaks of
sharing one's journey through life.
Ain't that interesting?
And that being the case,
there were five occasions when his travel
through time were pertinent to share with
father and son.
Further in the Maskyl,
the circumspect and insightful betrayal of
Dowd in the Ninth Mizmowr written by
Eythan, the opening verb is, guess what?
shyr.
I'm sure it's just a coincidence, right?
Sure.
bringing the historical portrait and life
journey together.
Now I'm convinced that these began with
Chanowk, with Enoch,
in mankind's first millennium.
His name we will reconsider momentarily,
especially because of the way it mirrors
Eythan's same name, same meaning anyway.
He was next inserted into the timeline on
the occasion of Moshe's meltdown along
with Dowd.
With My Dowd and El Dowd,
Yahowah was letting Moshe know that if he
got the Israelites to the promised land,
he had a couple of guys lined up
to take it from there.
And while nothing they said was recorded
on the occasion,
their message was detailed and retained
pursuant to the fulfillment of Yahowah's
timeline when they visited with Dany'el as
Myka'el, right about God, and Gabry'el,
God's most competent and courageous man.
And by the way,
with the mention of ezowb,
I think it is likely that Eythan ha
Ezrachy by whatever name.
was actually inserted into the story prior
to the eleventh chapter of Numbers,
which took place a few days out of
Choreb,
where they were introduced as spirit
filled and speaking prophetically for
Yahowah.
Moshe was persona non grata,
not just with the Egyptians,
but with his own people.
And he was going to need some help.
And when you mention ezowb/hyssop,
hyssop was how the blood of the Passover
lamb was placed on the doorway to life.
And he is identified here specifically
with hyssop.
And he will be identified with hyssop in
the sacrifice of the Adamah Parah.
Hyssop plays a big role in this
individual.
I think that we will find as we
go through the text more and more that
Yahowah didn't let Moshe hang out there on
his own.
That he had someone working for him just
stood in the background because this
wasn't about him.
It was about Moshe and about the children
of Israel and getting them out of harm's
way.
But there was somebody there supporting
him.
And it's indicated by the ezowb,
in my view.
So there is a growing and overwhelming
evidence that the third deployment of the
soul of Chanowk, Enoch,
aligned with year three thousand.
Yah.
On this occasion,
he served as a surrogate father during
those at least last four years and maybe
for a longer period than that,
at least of his first life.
And as Shalowmoh's grandfather during his
first four years as king and maybe a
little longer.
during which time he would have reinstated
Dowd's reputation with Yahowah,
taught Shalowmoh Chakmah,
and written the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr,
along with thirty Mashal Proverbs.
And the pace that he writes,
that's a reasonable accomplishment for
that amount of time.
He is verbose.
And there is every reason to suspect that
the soul of Eythan ha Ezrachy may have been
inserted a decade earlier,
such that he could have served as
Obed-Edom when assisting Yahowah and Dowd
in bringing the Ark of the Covenant into
the Temple Mount and properly position it
within the Tent of the Restoring Witness,
as reported in 2 Samuel 6.
It is what?
prompted Dowd to begin thinking about a
more permanent home for the Ark and
Yahowah's amazing response in what
heretofore has been my favorite prophecy
2 Samuel 7.
That's the one that brought us together,
wasn't it?
First one translated,
most often translate even more than this
one in Mizmowr Eighty-Nine.
So we are currently in the last days
of the fourth deployment of Chanowk's
Nepesh.
This is a teaching opportunity that will
conclude with the fulfillment of the
fourth Mow'ed, Shabuw'ah,
where he serves as the one cultivating the
harvest.
Yada Yahowah and the Yahowah vlog represent the
enduring legacy of this particular life.
So in my fifth memorable deployment,
my mission is to serve as one of
the two final witnesses alongside ElYah,
the only other man taken by Yahowah in
this fashion.
Nice tie-in, isn't there?
Everybody's always known there needed to
be a tie-in between Enoch and ElYah for
that reason alone, and there is.
Turns out there is.
I will then fulfill the fifth Miqra'ey on
Yom Taruwah, the Day of the Herald,
serving as the Adamah Parah,
this bullish man and productive individual
known then as the Choter, as the Nakar,
as Yada, and the man from Edom.
I realize that eleph is typically
translated as one thousand,
but it also means bull,
who is instructive as a learned teacher on
behalf of the tribe.
empowering them one thousandfold.
Further, as the Ets Da'ath,
tree of knowledge, and the Choter stem,
as the natsir, observant branch,
he will continuously speak of, indeed,
Etsym, trees.
This even ties in with Ezrachy because he
springs forth as a tree.
And according to the prophetic narrative,
he doesn't just share what he has learned.
His mission is to point out the more
robust of the trees.
The one he has reaffirmed as Etz Chayym,
the Tree of Lives.
Dowd for fulfilling Passover.
Having helped Dowd navigate
through the darkest episode of his life,
preparing him to fulfill Matsah.
The man noted to be perpetually
reoccurring, continuously deployed,
long established and perennially
unrelenting, springing up as a tree,
coming forth prepared to shine at the
right moment with logical expressions
regarding the entire sequence of events.
It's quite a mouthful,
is the one who made it possible for
many to be seen as pure and white,
labanown.
And then there is ezowb clue so tantalizing
that we will devote our undivided
attention to it in a moment.
I think you'll find it interesting.
You will in particular, Dr. Jeff.
But for now,
be aware that ezowb being deployed to show
the way to receive the benefits of the
relationship is being extended to serve as
the means to construct the structure of a
home.
floor to ceiling, walls to beams.
We are told that he will continually speak
against the beast, muting these beasts,
and he will address that which is required
to take flight.
Fly away on Shabuw'ah maybe?
He is positioned against the creeps who
slither about while advocating on behalf
of that which leads to exponential growth.
Sounds like a job description to me.
And when I read,
Eythan,
perpetually reoccurring and continuously
deployed.
In the preamble to Dowd's song,
my mind was immediately drawn back in time
to Chanowk.
You know what Chanowk means?
Trained and prepared,
dedicated and deployed.
Same guy.
He was, as we have learned,
the first individual that Yahowah inserted
as needed along the timeline to keep his
plans and people on track.
Through him,
God established one of the nephesh souls
that he would use going forward.
And his name, Chanowk,
affirms that he was instructed and
equipped and then deployed for that
specific purpose.
Now,
based upon the uncommon use of the Hitpael
stem, revealing that Chanowk, Enoch,
was completely unaffected by societal
pressures and constraints.
We now know why God took him,
why God would deploy him.
We find an individual influenced by God,
but not by men,
making him particularly serviceable.
He is shown on a continual journey with
Yahowah.
such that they are walking through life
together.
As I shared previously,
in conjunction with God,
their offspring included the longest-lived
individual, Mesthuwshelach,
a man whose name means that he was
a man sent out as a stem.
Every time we turn over a leaf,
We have another affirmation explaining how
the Choter stem would become the Etsah Da'ath,
the Tree of Knowledge providing counsel to
restore Yisrael.
And in this way,
they would father many sons and daughters
for the covenant over the years.
The realization that he would be known for
having existed,
three hundred and sixty-five years at a
time when the Hebrew calendar was three
hundred and fifty-four days.
suggest that in another life,
he might be the first to correlate God's
calendar with man's?
Just saying.
Therefore, following the clues,
it appears that at whatever time, place,
or title of Yahowah's choosing,
he or someone, sometimes she,
would be inserted, usually together,
into the ordinary flow of time by Yahowah,
then removed,
Returning to God,
awaiting the next deployment.
Doesn't have to travel in time.
Doesn't have to upend time.
Doesn't have to rip the fabric of time.
Ordinary progression.
You need to go back down.
This is the mission.
I'll pick you up again when we're done.
Just finish this mission.
We'll do another one.
always waiting for the next deployment.
So here, anyway,
is the supportive text that I have shared
previously regarding Chanowk,
but it's appropriate now.
Chanowk, trained and prepared,
dedicated and deployed,
was unfazed by external human influences
in his consistent walk through life.
He, free of human cultural, societal,
religious,
or political control mechanisms,
traveled with the Almighty,
Afterwards,
he delivered with him Methuwshelach,
a man sent as a stem,
the individual dispatched as a shoot,
from Math - man, Shalach - sent out as,
and a Shelach, a shoot, a stem,
a sprout, a Choter.
at three hundred years,
and then he fathered other sons and
daughters.
All of the days of Chanowk,
trained and dedicated, deployed,
was and will be three hundred and
sixty-five.
So Chanowk, trained and prepared,
dedicated and deployed,
unfazed by external societal influences,
consistently walked,
traveling through life with the Almighty,
and then there was nothing of him,
because God grasped hold of him.
at that moment and obtained him for a
period of time.
Bare’syth in the beginning,
Genesis five,
twenty two through twenty four.
Quite a connection, don't you think?
Well, you've been busy.
I mean,
I'm obviously biased because I've been
doing this for twenty five years and I've
gotten pretty accustomed to God's style of
just when you thought you had it together
and and God had put all on everything
on your plate that you could possibly
handle,
that he doubles down again and says,
I knew you could do more.
So I'm pretty accustomed to to this.
I'm.
been doing it now for twenty five years.
And over the last year,
it has been a deluge of these kinds
of insights.
But, you know,
you're hearing it for the first time.
What are your what are your thoughts?
I'm absolutely amazed.
I don't know what I'm talking over
someone, but no,
I'm just I'm sitting there the whole time
saying,
how did I get involved with such a
great group of guys like you and Leah?
Wow.
This is just
You're a huge part of it.
Yeah, you're a huge part of it.
And it is a smile.
I mean, it's all smiles.
We are together,
and it's going to be even more together
because the role that becomes apparent
through the thirty-first Mashal,
the last word picture,
and everything else we're reading,
is that the role between the greater and
lesser luminaries,
both which God says are great,
the Tree of Knowledge and the Tree of
Lives, isn't that of king and subject.
We're bound.
We are side by side.
And so if anything, well,
Dowd's clearly king and he's in charge,
but Leah and I are more like his earthly father
and mother.
than we are in any other role,
which means that the organization of what
needs to be done during Taruwah and then
on during Kipurym and through the
thousand years of Sukah, it's on you.
You're going to be the responsible ones.
We're going to be there to do what
we do,
which I'm going to continue to write and
to share and to teach and to try
to exemplify completing the job and living
a loving life that is also cerebral,
blending these things together and being
there,
completing the familial picture with Dowd
as mother, father, and son.
together uh as a family uh but that
means that you guys are it so that's
what it that's what it's conveying so it's
uh you're not just lucky to be part
of uh of of all of this you
are this. You and Leah are basically
gray matter and
you are the ultimate recyclable,
I don't even know how to even put
it.
This is just- Recyclable,
isn't that funny?
Yeah.
I want to make sure that there's a
proper appreciation for this.
And I think I'm going to say it
somewhere as we go forward.
But to read about yourself in the story
that Yahowah has provided,
you would think would be a heady thing
to do.
And you would say, well, isn't that neat?
How special is that?
But it's not the way it is.
And there's two aspects of this.
First of all,
that every time you lose anonymity and
that you're asked to do something more,
you become vastly more vulnerable.
And the job becomes more difficult as we
look at what happened with Moshe and Dowd.
Both of them died.
gave up partway through the mission and it
took everything they had just to finish
the job.
So that's part of it.
But the other part of it is by
being used this often in all of these
different ways,
you're kind of reduced in a way to
a tool.
You really are.
You're an implement.
You're part of the system.
Yeah, God says, you know.
You're a long way from the dented
implement that you used to talk about.
You know, why me?
Why you?
And oh, I'm just a dented implement.
You're a long way from that now.
That's not going to fly anymore, Yada.
Okay, let's put it this way.
Dowd was a handful, wasn't he?
Oh, yeah.
One really handful.
Gaba said, you know, I chose him.
This is the kind of guy that I
like and I choose people for different
reasons than man chooses people.
So we ought to be fairly comfortable with
the fact that God has a different style
for choosing people than we would normally
use and that that people that are a
handful appeal to him.
He likes, I guess,
lovable rogues and the like.
He has no problem with somebody that makes
a mistake so long as they can learn
from it.
And when they stumble, they get back up.
In fact, he kind of likes that.
And he sort of likes abrasive, bold,
aggressive men.
And he likes people that talk a lot.
So he has a type.
My take from this is that Chanowk Enoch
which is now what,
fifty four hundred years ago,
that range that he had a combination of
aptitudes and attitudes and that he always
says, you know,
that's somebody I can work with.
You know, it's maybe it's not much,
but I can work with that guy.
I think that guy will see it through.
I think I can put him in.
He'll do the mission and
We'll work through time because somebody's
got to keep my people and this plan
on track.
And I'm not going to go in there
and make a big show of it every
time because that means that free will
would be run amok.
Yeah, so we can't do it as,
you know, you will do this.
I order you to love me.
come on Dowd,
you can't be wallowing in your alcoholism
and depression.
I order you.
I demand that you love me and that
you do what you're supposed to do.
God can't do it that way.
He's painted himself into a corner.
We've discussed it multiple times.
He did.
He painted himself into a corner.
And he's not going to interfere with free
will.
Never.
And he's always going to keep his
promises.
That is correct.
And when he says,
I'm going to do it this way,
he means I'm going to do it this
way.
And so there you go.
You've got people that are doing it.
at God's beck and call.
He's inserting them.
He's winding them up.
He's preparing them.
He's deploying them.
And so this is routine for God.
But that's what I see is that God
bound up some personalities.
And if you read through this and the
way that these people come and go,
it is likely that we've been husband and
wife a long time.
We have probably the longest successful
marriage in the history of the world.
Well,
you do act like a couple that have
been married forever.
We do.
I do see a lot of that.
I got to say,
both for you and Leah,
that I think Yaa's nudging you to both
stop being self-deprecating and that it's
as if
you are like the ATP.
And what I mean by that is the
adenosine triphosphate,
the energy which powers life.
Let's be real here.
This is kind of beyond a description that
makes any other sense to me in that
form.
I mean, without the intervention
the ultimate most significant one-two
punch ever delivered by you and Leah to
Dowd, there is no life.
Yeah,
it's the culmination of our life's work.
I had always thought it was going to
be writing these books and delivering this
program.
And then I thought it was going to
be, well,
the ultimate sacrifice of the Adamah
Parah and the work on Taruwah.
But that's not the case.
This is the crowning achievement of our
lives.
After all these years, Yada,
you've never complained about writer's
cramp.
Never.
And obviously I've done a lot of it.
Never had writer's block,
never complained about writer's clamp.
But self-deprivation, I think,
is important here because...
I would have preferred anonymity.
I liked anonymity.
God doesn't do anonymous.
So, you know,
I signed on with the only real God
and he doesn't do anonymous.
And you got to if you're going to
work with him,
you got to go with his program.
He's he's smarter than we are.
And so I went with his program and
I had no idea there was going to
be this non anonymous.
But anyway.
Fortunately, he must have a hundred names,
so you can get lost in all the
names and titles until you take the time
to figure out what they mean.
Then you can't really hide anymore.
There just is no hiding.
You said you're going to go where the
words lead no matter what.
That's what you've done.
This is where the words are leading.
The definition of these words leads no
question as to this is that role.
And you have to be, well,
you can be self-deprecating all day long.
You do have to be honest.
Right, JB?
You've got to be honest.
And if the words say this,
you can't run from them.
That's what I'm saying.
I'm being a bit facetious,
but you're being observant, responsive,
and reliable.
These are the three principles that just
over and over.
I mean, it's just been that way.
And I don't think there'd be any
difference in this life and the earlier
lives.
Nepesh is the conveyor of your
personality.
And
think for the better all of us are
going to have very similar personalities
going forward i just think that's the way
it's going to be i think that that
god doesn't want us to have similar
personalities i think he wants us to have
different personalities i think he wants
the these personalities to uh to reflect
uh kind of the full specter of of
humanity so that you have
really aggressive and grating sometimes
and up to very soft and supportive.
You know, Kirk,
for all the time that we were co-hosts
on the Yada Yah Radio,
we were differentiated in style.
I was always the blunt and aggressive one.
And some people like that, but most don't.
You were always the approachable one,
the supportive one, the always kind,
always nice, always...
You were the good guy of all of
those times.
And so the different personalities...
work together.
If you had the same personality,
eternity would be really boring.
So this is exactly what I was trying
to accomplish here.
We all have very different personalities
and we all make a contribution because of
the fact that we're different.
Different personalities allow for
different perspectives.
Absolutely.
Even the same person can look at the
same material and come up with different
perspectives.
But absolutely.
And that's why I'm asking, you know,
I've read through this.
I've done the translation.
I've thought it all through.
And these are my conclusions.
But, you know, what are yours?
Bill, when you hear this, I mean,
this is pretty...
Pretty amazing.
No one's ever considered this before.
What's your thought?
You know what I find fascinating?
And this is really,
it really started when we discovered that
Dowd was the Pesach Ayil.
It seems like since that time that we
have gone through this series of almost
like neck-snapping paradigm shifts.
Yahowah almost demands that you're
spiritually nimble.
You have to get,
there's a lot to get through.
We got to get to the next thing.
And my personality,
I like to just sit with it.
But so trying to keep up,
we're just always on that sort of that
cutting edge of revelation being in the
covenant.
And I just noticed I have to do
that.
I have to be a little bit more
nimble with this because it's constant.
Every week there's new information that
you have to sort of digest and metabolize.
And I was thinking about that,
and Yahowah said, well, hey,
welcome to eternity,
because what you're doing is you're
getting to know Yahowah.
That's what we're doing,
and he's going to constantly reveal.
So this pace is probably the pace at
Sukah and even beyond.
I think that is absolutely unequivocally
brilliant.
It is.
And I didn't actually think of it that
way, but I'm convinced that you're right,
that we are in a way being taught,
orchestrated, evaluated,
encouraged to be on that edge,
to never be complacent.
To the moment that you learn something new
to be excited about how you're going to
not replace that thing that's new,
but add to it.
Yes.
What now that you have this piece and
you understand this piece,
how are you going to use that piece
with all the other pieces of this puzzle
you put together to get to the next
piece?
Yep.
It's like moving through the equation
where it is a perpetual equation.
And God's saying,
I don't want you to be comfortable with
this.
That's what I was saying that working with
Yahowah,
my first reaction has been the moment you
get comfortable with, okay,
it's fun writing for Yahowah as Yada being
anonymous.
But who is this Choter fellow?
And then who is this Nakry fellow?
And then it goes on and on and
on.
And after a while, you say, oh,
come on, God, this is just too much.
And I think that is what we're being
told here is eternity is a big place.
The universe is a big place.
Eternity is a long period of time.
And God is not complacent.
And what he's looking for is for us
to keep up.
You know,
that's the whole thing about complete the
mission.
He wants us to keep up.
And so what he's doing is he is
just like Eythan ha Ezrachy progressively
taught Shalowmoh how to be wise.
And he taught Shalowmoh.
Dowd who he is and what he's going
to do with his life because he
systematically figured it out.
What I was saying, that is my style.
I want you to mirror my style so
that we are harmonious together forever
throughout this universe.
Cause there's a lot,
the moment you figure out one thing, man,
we're going to go on to the next.
Yeah.
What Will has done and it was brilliant.
What he just said is that,
There's constant augmentation and
evolution.
And you can look back to Two Sam
Six as a kind of a basic fundament
for that.
And even now,
just looking back at what you just
revealed in One Melekym Four,
he did even say about you,
about Eythan ha Ezrachy,
that you will shine at your time.
Yes.
And this,
it seems like now is the time.
It's, it's happening.
And it's like, if you look at a,
you know, you know, hyperbolic,
it's at a pace that's beyond exponential.
So I think it's our I think it's
our time.
Yeah.
I think this is a covenant.
It is our time.
And I actually think, well,
I like the hyperbolic analysis,
but I think Yahowah's got a better one.
It's like waves relentlessly against the
sea because there was another time,
three thousand years ago,
that was ever a bit this important.
maybe more important.
And there'll be a next one when we
come back.
And then there'll be a next one as
we exemplify what God's looking for
through the millennial Shabbat so that
more people have a chance to go off
and explore the universe.
So I think it is one wave after
another, never ending, always relentless,
eroding the harshness and caressing the
sands and the toes of those who are
receptive.
It is like the sound of the sea.
It's been fun.
It is fun.
It is.
It's fun and it's exciting.
And you don't, you know, every day it's...
Yeah, another marvelous discovery.
And, you know,
I hinted at something that I was able
to prove over the last two days that...
Rahab is the actual name.
You know, we've always been searching, oh,
is he the towrahless one?
Is he the great betrayer?
You know,
he certainly isn't the Antichrist.
We use that term because it's known by
people and they'll recognize it.
But the realization that we have come to
through the prophets that Donald Trump is
demon possessed,
that he is this corporeal manifestation of
Satan.
I didn't know he had a name.
He does.
And that name is presented four different
times.
And each of those four times,
it's either in concert with Babylon,
or it's in concert with the demonic dragon
and the venomous serpent,
or it's in concert with that fiery
serpent.
Remember that guy?
Or it's in concert with what's called a
deadly and venomous snake.
It's always a man that is enveloped,
intertwined with the very spirit of Satan.
His name is Rahab.
It means he's a confabulator,
that he's conceited, that he's chaotic,
that he's vicious.
Sounds familiar.
So who knew that that was there?
I mean,
were you guys aware that Yashayah speaks of
him twice in two different chapters and
that there is an entire Mizmowr devoted to
him and that he is featured early on
in the Eighty-Ninth Psalm?
Rahab.
Congratulations, Donald Trump.
He joins the ranks of Muhammad and Sha'uwl.
Yeah, I think he's worst.
I think that by the time that Rahab
is done, he will be more deadly,
more destructive, more damning,
more vicious,
more deceitful than Mohammed, Paul, Akiba,
Hitler, Stalin, Lenin, Mao, Genghis Khan,
Tamerlane, Hadrian, Vespasian.
Nero, any of them, all of them.
He's going to be the worst person who
ever lived.
He's the culmination of them all.
He's the MC for Jacob's troubles,
for crying out loud.
What, Will?
I said he's the MC for Jacob's troubles,
for crying out loud.
He is.
Yeah, he is.
Yeah,
so Rahab is going to take him down.
Oh, by the way, yeah, you know,
and what we find in the Eighty-Ninth
Mizmowr, and again in Yashayah,
he's very emphatic.
He says he's taken down by the empowered
Zarowa of Yahuwah.
There you go.
Yeah.
So, uh, it is,
I just think the whole thing is, uh,
that what the plan I think is actually
ingenious.
So, you know,
if we're getting back just to the,
the core of the story,
the plan is absolutely ingenious.
Um,
God came up with a way to keep
his people and his plan on track.
He had a six thousand year plan that
year, you know, three thousand, uh, yeah,
he was going to, um,
Well, you know,
you begin with year two thousand, yeah,
nineteen sixty eight B.C.
He is going to affirm the narrative of
the covenant on Mount Moriah with Abraham
and Yitschaq.
And then a thousand years later,
he's going to affirm through his beloved
son that he would serve as the Passover
lamb.
And he did so a thousand years after
that in year four thousand, yeah,
thirty three C.E.
And then, you know,
we are going to fulfill Shabuwah.
Here shortly and then and the final fall
Miqra'ey are going to be filled in year
six thousand year thirty three twenty
thirty three.
God's keeping his plan on track.
All the players are where they need to
be.
They're doing what they need to do.
And this is the way that God was
able to do that without imposing upon free
will or ripping the universe apart by
sending someone back in time.
He had an ace in the hole ready
for when everything started to get off
track.
He did.
And somebody trained that he had the right
personality for what he was trying to do,
the right aptitudes and attitudes.
And there you go.
You're inserted.
You do your job.
You come back out.
But I think your personality stays
identical.
It's the same.
You know, we talk about this often.
Souls are actually a form of energy that
can be enveloped in light and energy when
we're in the seventh dimension.
When we're down here on earth,
we're put into physical bodies and those
physical bodies are essentially
meaningless.
They're easily replicable,
they're easily replaceable.
And so God can put a soul into
a body at any time and then take
that soul out of that body and bring
them to Shamaym and then deploy them
again.
That is the beauty of a soul.
Yahowah can even deploy his own soul that
way.
So the body is meaningless.
That's why the whole Christian idea of God
being a man is just so ludicrous.
That's why bodily resurrection is so
stupid.
The body is meaningless.
It's the soul that matters,
and it's the soul of Enoch, of Chanowk,
that God had an affinity for and said,
you know,
this is somebody I can work with.
He just, and he evidently married well.
And God says, you know,
both of them I can work with.
This is a good team.
I'll just keep on deploying them.
And I think he has confidence in this
time that we're not going to fail because,
well,
he's been through this with us before.
We didn't fail the last time.
He keeps on referring to me as young
man.
Now I see why.
I see the humor in it.
I'm fifty-six hundred years old.
I don't look too bad for fifty-six
hundred.
I'm starting to gray a little bit.
I've even got the streaks of salt and
pepper in the hair now.
It's not bad for fifty-six hundred years,
I don't think.
That's still young compared to Yahowah.
It is.
He created this universe fourteen billion
years ago and
Who knows how long he'd been around doing
this before that.
You know, we don't know his long history,
but yeah, it's still darn young.
And of course,
but from Yahowah's point of view,
time is not the same thing.
Yeah, it is for us.
You know,
during one of your podcasts this past
week, Craig,
you mentioned Dowd saying something that
you figured out or it was your opinion,
but you opine that how do you reconcile...
favoring the quote-unquote death of a son.
Yeah.
When he wrote a whole song,
the devotion was celebrating the death of
a son,
and it becomes all of this great
celebration,
and you realize that Dowd had lost four
sons, and he didn't celebrate any of them,
and he was really emotionally distraught.
So they're not his son.
And that means that he's either
celebrating his fulfillment of Passover as
the son of God,
or he's realizing that
his buddy here is also a son of
God,
and that he is giving his life on
Taruwah so that Dowd can return home on
Kipurym,
and he's gonna have a grand celebration
and a welcoming family to receive him.
And so that he's either talking about one
of those two,
and it's likely the last of them.
I think he's celebrating Adamah Parah
taking down Rahab.
He knows what's gonna happen.
Yeah,
the reason he knows what's going to happen
is I told him,
because you read it in the...
I was trying to figure out why in
the world would he go,
and he's clearly going from...
He went talking about Yahowah,
and then he has Yahowah speak about Dowd,
and then he speaks about Yahowah again...
Eythan does.
And then Eythan jumps right into himself as
the Zarowa,
who is this man that comes from the
West and emerges from the sea to agitate
and then take down this great plague that
is Rahab.
And you say, why would he do?
Oh,
of course I know why he did that.
You know,
he's going to begin this by saying, okay,
all the credibility here is Yahowah.
We know who Yahowah is.
This is what he is doing.
This is what he has to say about
you.
And oh, by the way,
so you know that the guy that's delivering
this isn't just a messenger boy.
He is more than the delivery boy here.
He's a guy with skin in the game,
shedding blood along with you.
He's a fighter along with you.
And he's the other guy that's fulfilling
this Mow'edym
So you're not the only one who's going
to
endure the death of his body in an
aggressive way against the beast of Rome,
in his case,
and me against the beast of Satan directly
on Taruwah.
We have a common bond here,
which is what he's trying to say.
And that common bond is why you need
to listen to everything else that I'm
going to tell you is that we are
forever tied together in this way.
And I think it was just a brilliant
way for God to have these two men
bond.
What's your thoughts there, Kevin?
That would have been an interesting
introduction.
Wouldn't you like to have seen, well,
you do,
but I would have liked to have seen
that.
How does y'all introduce Ethan Azarki,
you know,
the lesser luminary to the greater
luminary and say, oh, hey, by the way,
you know, you don't know it yet,
but this is where things are going,
you know?
I think I know why it didn't even
have to be an introduction.
When he really fell off the wagon with
Yahowah for the first time was when Yahowah
killed the man who interfered with the
bull bringing the Ark of the Covenant into
Jerusalem to put under the tent of the
restoring witness.
And that was the message that God was
trying to convey,
that it will be a bull that will
do that.
And Dowd said,
I disagree with your killing him.
I think that was wrong, which you did.
And now I'm giving up.
I'm going to have nothing to do with
relocating this Ark of the Covenant.
It's your responsibility.
You figure it out.
I'm out of here.
Defeatist.
Gave up.
And God said, okay, I've got a guy.
His name tells you a lot about him.
Obed is written exactly like the word for,
Dowd is constantly called the Ebed
coworker.
It's a worker.
So it's one who works and one who
serves.
And Edom is a derivation of Adam.
And so it means one who serves mankind.
And so the guy was one who serves
mankind.
And that guy then took the responsibility
of getting the Ark of the Covenant under
the tent of the restoring witness, right?
And Dowd got to know him.
And when he took over and God says,
pay attention,
that's what's happening here.
You can rely on him.
I know him.
He's going to get this job done.
Dowd went out and danced.
He partied.
He knew what this was leading to,
which is why he put on the ephod
of the high priest,
because he knew that when this happens for
real the next time,
he's going to be anointing that mercy seat
of the Ark of the Covenant as the
high priest.
And he knew that he'd be relying on
that same guy to get it there.
And he knew that that was going to
lead to a reentry into Eden,
which is why he was bare-ass naked from
the ephod on down.
And he knew that he was kabowd at
that point.
He was really significant.
So that was the beginning of it all.
So I'm convinced that...
That the person by whatever name,
but it's really a job description,
the man serving mankind, Obed-Edom,
who is reintroduced by Yashayah as the man
from Edom who saves many, is...
Eythan ha Ezrachy.
Yeah,
they would have they would have a previous
interaction, previous history,
because I just I mean,
I just think to the nuts and the
bolts of the whole thing is like,
how do you show up in his house?
How do you even even get in the
gate if he doesn't know who you are?
You know?
Yeah.
You know, he was traipsing through time.
Yeah, because they threw a bet.
Absolutely.
The only thing I have to do.
Yes, go ahead.
I was going to say just one thought
on that is that names with Yahowah tell
stories.
And so if you want to know the
story, understand the names,
and then you know who the players are.
And so Obed Edom is Ethan ha
Ezrachy.
He was doing a service for the man.
when he relocated the Ark of the Covenant,
and then he is now the one who
is perpetually deployed,
sprouting forth as the tree to represent
the entire story as Eythan ha Ezrachy
Same guy, just different,
slightly different job description.
Names as adjectives, not nouns.
Yes.
Excuse me.
Go ahead, Jeff.
It's Edom.
By talking about Edom,
it's referencing Esau.
Again, we're going back to the sea.
We're going back to the Goy who's going
to show the Israelites and Yahuwdym.
Well,
it is true that Edom is associated with
Esau.
Edom is written one letter different from
Adam.
So it's clearly a man.
And he's a man in service to men
or a man in service to the man.
is what that name means.
The fact that it's Edom as opposed to
just Adam means that his role in service
to the man is to bring the family
together.
Esau was the one who was robbed of
his birthright.
And you're going to restore the
relationship between Yahuwdym and Yisrael.
You begin there.
That's when it was split.
And so by him being the man from
Edom, he is the man who was ostracized,
who was cheated out of his birthright.
That is reuniting Yisrael.
It's the story of Yirmayah thirty one of
where Jerusalem, excuse me,
Yahuwdym and Yisrael are reunited as the
covenant is reaffirmed.
This is how it happens.
That's why it's the man from Edom.
He is restored.
So you're completely correct.
He is restoring the family.
But his name speaks of a servant to
either mankind or a servant to the man.
And the man would be Edom.
Any other thoughts there, Kevin?
Yeah,
the only other thing I was thinking about
was with, to William's point,
you can't call yourself conservative
anymore.
You're more progressive than with the
Wipnack, you know, stuff.
Cutting edge progressive,
you know what I mean?
Cutting edge progressive, baby.
Yeah, we are.
We're cutting edge.
So, yeah, I'm growing.
I'm expanding in personality attributes.
opening up here to being a progressive
yeah Yahowah is against tradition he's
against the status quo and so we have
to be as well you know especially those
traditions did not follow uh the the uh
the covenant and and the seven Mowed
Miqra you know he's got always growing
always learning always uh becoming more
than we were yesterday and helping others
do the same never really you know being
comfortable being on the edge
You know,
one of the things that I learned when
I was a young man,
I was an introvert.
And yet,
from my earliest recollections as a child,
and it stayed with me during my entire
childhood, it has never left me,
that I'm not here to do something
ordinary.
And until I came to know Yahowah,
twenty-six years ago,
I didn't know what that thing was.
But not only did I know it,
but almost everyone that I encountered
along the way who I got to know
said,
Don't know what your role is,
but we're going to hear a lot from
you going forward.
There's something special.
I was always an old soul.
I didn't relate to other children my age.
I was always an old soul,
and I always knew that there was something
extraordinary that was going to happen.
And it is God's way to make this
happen this way.
And he knows that...
that he has never been popular.
He knows this is an exceedingly difficult
job.
He knows that the more attention that is
drawn to you, the harder the job becomes.
And if anything, all of this does say,
I trust you.
We've been through it before.
We'll get it done again.
I don't think God had any concern that
we wouldn't get this done.
now because we got it done before that
this wasn't the hardest of those occasions
this isn't the hardest the hardest was
three thousand years ago and i don't think
it was any cup of tea thirty five
hundred years ago when
There was no cup of tea either.
That was tough.
That was tough duty.
Getting one Yahuwd to a hill at the
right time is one thing.
Getting a million Yahuwd to a hill at
the right time is a completely different
story.
Completely different story.
Yeah,
I don't think that story happens without
Moshe having support.
And that's why when we hear the story
in the eleventh chapter of Numbers of
of El Dowd, God's beloved, and My Dowd,
the one who is supported of Dowd.
And they're filled with the spirit and
they're prophets.
And it's...
Yahowsha ben Nun,
who hears them and he reports of them.
And he goes to Moshe and says,
you know, here are these two guys.
This is their name and here's what they're
doing.
Should we be concerned?
And Moshe didn't say who.
I've never heard of those guys.
Did he?
He knew him.
He was ecstatic.
And what was his response?
He says, oh, my God, no,
this is really good.
This is exactly what we want.
Encourage it.
This is what we want.
Because they were the guys that behind the
scenes were making all of this happen.
They were the ones that rounded up the
Israelites.
How do you think the Israelites got the
lambs?
They were slaves.
How do you think they got the hyssops?
They had straw.
They didn't have hyssop.
How do you think all that happened?
How do you think they actually got rounded
up and led across that land bridge?
They found the right place at Nuweiba Beach.
Do you think they just stumbled on it?
Or do you think somebody knew it was
there?
Yeah.
When, you know,
God decided that all those who
participated in the golden calf would be
swallowed by the earth.
Who do you think was, wasn't Moshe?
Moshe didn't stand up.
Moshe fell on his face every time there
was a problem.
So who was it that,
that rounded them up and made sure that
was going to happen?
Yeah.
I think that, I think it's,
I think we'll find that it was throughout
time that God said, all right,
we need a little support here.
go get them.
This is what needs to be done.
And you're going to equip you,
give you what you need to get this
job done.
And I think that at least once or
twice along that timeline,
you get a long period of time and
you get to demonstrate that right from the
beginning, that without previous training,
without any prior training,
a knowledge of what you have done,
that you can prove that you can be
trusted,
that you can do the three things God
wants, be observant, be responsive,
and be reliable,
and that you can get it done.
And God's going to say, see,
I told you.
I knew it.
And by having a life that's like that,
you gain total confidence.
You're not saying, you know,
I'm just a tool.
I got used all this time.
Let me tell you the story about what
happened.
No.
You earned God's trust.
You get to have the confidence that comes
along with that.
You get to sense the sense of
satisfaction.
You get to snuggle up to Yah and
say, we did good, didn't we?
And you get to say, we did good,
didn't we?
No, no, that turned out really nicely.
Nice plan, coach.
I think that's tremendously satisfying.
And now in this occurrence,
It's we.
This doesn't work without a we.
JB,
you were all over Bare’syth's Genesis.
Did you pick up anything like Enoch?
It takes a lot.
You really have to care deeply about the
meaning of the name.
And this doesn't work without the
understanding the stems and the uniqueness
of the hithpael stem in particular,
why that positioned him properly for this
job.
And you really need the base of knowledge
that you've built up over the last twenty
some years to get it.
I mean,
if you'd translated it twenty years ago,
you wouldn't have got any of this because
you didn't have that base of knowledge
that you've developed.
That is correct.
It contextualizes everything that you've
ever done.
That is correct.
Yeah, it's the foundation of knowledge.
And I think that's what is particularly
true of
translating and contemplating and then
interpreting the word of God so that you
can deduce and share insights.
I think it is the essence of it.
It's why God doesn't do a data dump.
You have this opportunity to grow and
learn and then have the joy of sharing.
what you have learned and growing from it,
that that is the great joy in life.
And that's where we're going to be,
as you said, Will, for all time.
That is the,
we'll always be invigorated by that next
opportunity,
capitalizing on what we learned and adding
to it.
But it is absolutely true that if I
translate anything now,
it is so profoundly beyond
what I could have done five years ago,
ten years ago, or twenty years ago.
Hugely different.
I would love now to have the year's
time to go through all of those Mashal,
knowing what we know.
Wouldn't that just be grand?
I'd like to finish the entire book of
Yashayah.
I would love to do all of the
minor prophets.
There's just so much
that needs to be done.
I'd love to go through the whole story
of the covenant.
I'm sure there's insights galore.
I think that part of the reason for
having this thousand years is that while
we're doing that thousand years,
there is no reason why we can't have
the existing Towrah written inside of us
and come to understand all of those
metaphors and insights and share them and
make that part of the teaching where we're
continuing to write and we're adding books
to the shelf and we're adding vlogs that
can be disseminated and modeling behavior.
I did have a conversation at dinner
tonight with Rich and with Leah that I
think we're going to enter that period
with enough books on the shelf and enough
logs to have earned like a year off.
It'll take everybody a year to process
them before we're needed again.
And I've been negotiating for a vacation.
I don't know if I'm going to get
it, but I've been negotiating for it.
I mean, you guys need to know that.
I've been negotiating for a vacation.
I would really, really like one.
That one's getting long.
Yeah,
Dowd gets one because he is the groom
of number five.
And as the groom of number five,
if you read through,
particularly when Yahowah is issuing the
final divorce decree with Miriam,
the one who said,
but we two speak for God.
He spoke about how a newly married man
has a year off.
And so Dowd's going to get one.
And I think if he gets one,
we should get one.
And so I'm kind of counting on having
a little break.
Now we're going to be all reinvigorated.
It's going to be a lot of fun
and everything's going to be new and
there's so much to do.
And maybe we can sneak out for a
year over a second.
Maybe that'll work too.
So we'll find out.
But between now and then,
I think that we have this grand
opportunity over a thousand years to
celebrate being material,
but knowing what we know.
just think that's going to be grand and
then we have all eternity to celebrate not
being material and going beyond those
dimensions but i'm actually looking
forward to a thousand years of being
material and and this world being so
beautiful and so many things to explore
and to do and you're not uh Kevin
you you want to go straight to the
think of all the things you can get
done when you're not spending time trying
to maintain
and feed and sleep this biological body
think of all the things you'll be able
to get done because you spend eight hours
of your day sleeping a complete waste of
time okay and you spend three times you
know a day you're eating a complete waste
of all of this just to keep the
brain going and and and keep the
mechanical body up and moving so it can
go other places and do things think of
how much stuff you can get done with
all that out of the way
As a person who loves food,
I don't view eating as a waste of
time.
I'm with you, JB.
Yeah, I'm with you, JB.
I think that, first of all,
I find sleep highly rejuvenating.
Most of the time that I have a
really good dialogue with Yahowah,
I'm just by myself kind of saying,
all right, this is a nice quiet time.
What do I need to know that I
don't know?
What am I doing wrong?
What do we need to do to get
this something accomplished?
And it is a really lovely,
peaceful time to do that.
I just love that whole process of
restoring the mind and the body.
So I actually enjoy that.
sleep.
Um,
I need more of it now than I
used to, you know,
I'm only working now a half day.
So I only work, uh,
twelve to fourteen hours a day now.
So that's only half day.
Uh,
and I do need more sleep than I
used to, but I don't mind that.
Um,
I don't need any time for grooming.
It should be obvious, you know,
water to the face,
wet hands through the hair.
And that's pretty much.
Yeah,
that's so we're pretty similar on on the
the grooming aspect of it.
Eating, I think,
is a really a an interesting process.
You're not only nourishing yourself,
but it's time to spend.
I think it's a lovely time to spend
conversationally.
Leah, Rich, and I,
when we have our meals together,
we have interesting conversations.
I just think it's a wonderful social
experience.
I think we will actually be eating.
Well,
Pesach would be an example of that going
forward.
And then there's the idea of touch and
a loving relationship.
I'm all over that.
But I now know that it's essential for
brain growth and intellectual stimulation,
which is really the only reason that I'm
sure we do it.
Sure.
But physical love is just a marvelous
attribute to life and accompaniment of
life.
Music that we heard today,
it takes a physical body to make those
sounds and the ears that hear it.
I think the music is marvelous.
I love the feel of the warmth of
a sun on my cheeks.
I just think that the feel of sun
is a marvelous thing.
I love hearing the wind blow through
either pines or through palm fronds.
I love the sound of the sea.
I love to walk in the sand and
the water from the sea to lap on
your feet.
I mean,
there's there's just so many lovely
things.
I love to scuba dive and have that
weightless feeling.
And you watch that all these new forms
of life all around you.
Without a body, you'll be weightless.
Yeah, well, that's true.
Listen,
I'm not poofooing the advantages of being
seven-dimensional and of being able to go
through and see the entire universe and
trillions of galaxies and billions and
billions of stars in each of them and
understanding the DNA code for life and
going off and exploring with Yahowah.
I just think it's going to be beyond
imagination wonderful.
But I don't have a problem delaying that
a thousand years.
and uh hanging here and you know and
because it's going to be we're going to
have a perfect body essentially perfect
it's kind of silly but you're going to
have a a body that you know your
eyes aren't going to get tired you're not
going to need glasses to see uh you're
not going to have to work out necessarily
to stay in shape um and so i
i just think that's going to be uh
be a marvelous um thing going forward and
We're going to live through that process
for a thousand years here on earth.
So you never have a crunch of time.
You never feel pressured.
I got to get that done.
Then you got a thousand years and then
you've got all eternity.
I like it all.
I just think,
I think it's all going to be great
and grand.
Yeah.
There will be enough tasky stuff happening
that we have to have that sense of
urgency.
Otherwise, nothing gets done.
Oh, we've got a thousand years.
We can finish that song tomorrow.
As Will said,
he's going to keep us on edge the
whole time and we're going to be already
comfortable with being on edge.
Let's go, let's go, let's go.
Okay, you got that.
Let's go, let's go.
Don't get flabby.
Don't get...
Don't become idle.
You know,
when Dowd was sleeping in the middle of
the day and got up at dusk,
and that's when he went to voyeur mode,
and that's not what he's looking for.
You know, we're going to get going.
Come on.
The sun is going to be up in
an hour.
Why are you still in bed?
Let's go.
Gentlemen, gentlemen,
we're being given the gift of having both.
Yes, I agree.
The gift of both.
And let me just say the three S's,
you know, sleep, sex,
sustenance with food are essential.
And they optimize us in this
manifestation.
And as Kevin is saying, being light,
bright, eternal life.
is wonderful as well but the uh the
benefits of of the three here and then
being able to experience light which is
our body is absorbing all forms of energy
be it the uv light visible light infrared
light uh
is life-giving, life-sustaining,
and optimization of what we have in this
realm.
How about this,
to play off of between what you're saying
and what Kevin is saying,
is that following the Shabuwah Harvest,
we're going to have three years of being
seven-dimensional.
And that time, I mean,
we're going to start with, God,
it's great to be here.
What a thrill that was.
I hope you're pleased with what we
accomplished together.
What did we get wrong?
What did we miss?
What do you want us to do going
forward?
Let's get ourselves,
make sure we're all prepared to go
forward.
And now that we've done that,
let's go and have some fun.
Let's go.
plenty of time to have fun.
And we're going to be without bodies able
to be in Yahowah's presence and one
another's presence,
where we don't have a sense of urgency
that we have to get back down to
earth right now.
We're being prepared for that.
But
we can go and experience all that Yah
has to offer.
So when we do return,
we can share not only what we've known
from the towrah and the prophets,
but what we experienced firsthand.
So I do think that blings into it,
but then when we get back down and
we're working with mortals,
If we're gonna set an example and be
an exemplars for them too,
you can't always be just a spiritual
being.
You've got to spend some time.
Yeah,
you gotta spend some time doing exactly
what we're doing.
Studying, being observant, learning,
contemplating, thinking, sharing,
in writing and in these formats.
And I think that we're gonna have lots
of wonderful meals around the world
together.
And it's going to be a grand fun,
but I think we're going to go in
and out of all of this.
I do think that because of the way
time works and the way time changes when
you're no longer a physical body,
that we will be able to take a
year off and maybe only miss a second
or two on the ordinary flow of time.
I wouldn't be surprised if that happens.
But I do know right now,
while I think it is incentive and we
need incentive,
to think about what God's offering and
where we're going to go and how much
fun that's going to be, Kevin,
without any limitation of a body.
And Dr. Jeff with the three S's,
with sleep, with sex, and with sustenance,
and with sex.
And I know I already mentioned sex,
but I like sex.
Yeah.
Yeah, it bears repeating.
Was that Blazing Saddles?
A little different, but nonetheless,
I'll rip off the line.
But the...
why not?
Why would God want to deprive us of
the things that are so enjoyable?
And so if you look at how he
interacted with Abraham and with Sarah,
I mean, it wasn't sex.
Well, yeah, we actually talked sex, right?
They had a kid.
They didn't have a kid by standing ten
feet apart, you know?
So it was all the same things.
Yeah.
I'll leave you with this, Yasha, is that
Eythan ha Ezrachy basically was all about
BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor.
Remember we spoke about that last week,
about cerebral enhancement, augmentation,
and optimization.
And that is obtained through having a
healthy relationship,
an excellent love life.
So it's part and parcel from, again,
I'll say it again, it's antiquity and now.
Yes.
That hasn't changed.
No, it's the same pattern.
And I think that we have been set
up for success.
and that the next thousand years are going
to be just a constant learning experience.
We're going to be on that edge of
discovery every moment,
and the discoveries are going to become
more frequent and more profound,
more affirming, more confirming,
more inspiring.
And I think that the fact that God's
used this plan for six thousand years,
I think that it does a marvelous job
of
confirming and affirming his approach and
his style.
Obviously, he has to be approachable.
Obviously,
he has to have thoughts that are similar
to ours.
And that obviously,
he has to have confidence in us.
One of the things that was a translation
that I made,
and I've forgotten where it was,
but I'll find it back again.
And it might have been in the Eighty-Ninth
Mizmowr even.
In fact, it is.
It's in the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr.
One of the most reassuring thoughts I've
ever read from God.
And it says that God confides in the
set apart.
And those who are set apart to him,
he confides in them.
That takes it way beyond anything that we
have pondered thus far,
because we view ourselves as him, teacher,
a student, right?
Him, God, us people.
Him, boss, us workers.
Him, father, us sons.
He, infinite, seven-dimensional,
us three-dimensional at this point.
Right.
But that's not what he says when we
are in Shamaym.
And this is set up in Shamaym.
He says in Shamaym,
he confides in the set apart.
That'll be his covenant family.
And he can't confide in us unless he
trusts us and unless he values our
contribution to that narrative.
You don't confide in someone unless you
want to hear back from them.
Right?
You're looking for a response.
Otherwise, you don't confide.
You're looking for,
what do you think about this?
This is what I think we ought to
do.
What do you think?
Where God's actually saying,
I value your conclusions here and your
thoughts and your judgment.
This is what I think.
What do you think?
You want a platypus with bright feathers.
I do.
I want one.
I want my platypus to fly,
but that's probably not the first thing
he's going to confide in.
But nonetheless,
I'm sure we'll have that discussion as to
why platypuses don't fly.
That's like next level.
I'm sorry.
I was just going to say that's next
level relationship that Yahowah would
confide in you.
Think about how high you have to be
elevated to get to that point because now
you're relating on a whole.
I mean,
we're really very infantile children right
now.
But as time goes on,
he may confide in you.
I think from God's point of view,
we are now standing grain while we are
three-dimensional and He is
seven-dimensional,
and therefore there's a huge chasm between
us.
But His whole plan is He's going to
elevate our nephesh souls
by infinity each time we go up in
a dimension, through time, through space,
and we go up in two dimensions into
seven dimensions,
that will be an infinite increase in our
capability, our empowerment,
our capacity to process information and to
make decisions and our opportunity.
We're gonna have a...
A fourfold times infinity increase in all
of this.
So, yes,
he's going to feel comfortable confiding
in us because we're going to be much
more like him.
That's his whole plan.
He needs to test us first.
see who is willing to do the three
things who's willing to be observant to be
responsive and to be reliable because he
doesn't want to take us to that can
you imagine we're in heaven and uh god's
confiding in us and one person says you
know i don't like your plan at all
i think that's really stupid why'd you
bring me here i don't want to be
here anymore i mean wouldn't that be a
downer
Wow.
Yeah.
So, you know,
God's got to have a filtering mechanism.
And those are his three filtering tests.
And but you're right.
Once we get to that level,
it is it is the next level.
It is the it's the thing that makes
a relationship between a husband and wife
so spectacular.
Or when you have a child and you
can reach the point in your relationship
with that child that you can confide in
them.
Yes.
No longer changing diapers.
You're teaching how to hit a curve.
Yeah.
Yeah,
it's funny that you say that because Jake,
my son Jake,
is now fifteen years old and he's just
getting to that age where he's
transitioning
to somebody that I can confide in and
have a mature conversation with.
And I understand that his perspective is
refined enough through experience that we
can have that kind of,
but it's neat because that's what's
happening right now.
That's unfolding in our relationship.
So it's probably those teen years.
Next level stuff.
Yeah.
And all the,
all the stages up to that were enjoyable,
weren't they?
Oh yeah.
They were wonderful.
And this, this is the next level stuff.
It's probably the best step.
And I think that's exactly what God is
offering.
And so when he says that he confides
in the set apart,
that tells you that we're going to reach
a point where we can contribute to the
story.
And I actually think this is a really
crazy idea.
But I think that when we're constantly
asking, you know, God, OK,
I need some guidance here.
I'm a little stuck on how do we
deal with this particular issue that that
God would actually prefer.
us to make a contribution and say, God,
I think we should do it this way.
What do you think?
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, that's next level.
That is saying that I'm comfortable with
you as a teenage boy with dad.
I've reached that.
We've done enough things together and have
enough trust.
It's like a marriage that has clicked on
all facets and you've developed a real
comfort level with one another.
You know that you're never going to part.
that you genuinely are going to love each
other and support each other through the
process.
And then you're confiding each other in
ways that would make you vulnerable
otherwise.
And you reach that point.
I think that's what God is looking for.
I think he's actually,
if he's not interested in that,
I think that eternity would get to be
less interesting for him,
less fulfilling for him.
I mean,
I don't think he wants the responsibility
of,
of a hundred percent of the time he
has to teach.
He has to lead.
He has to guide that.
He is always has to be in control.
I think he would much prefer to have
an,
an interactive relationship where we can
fight in one another.
I think that would be more,
far more interesting for him.
Yeah.
Just as I think that God would be
boards stiff.
If there was such thing as a PR
of a perfect person,
I think guard would be absolutely bored.
And it's this process of growing and
learning and becoming more than we have
been.
Well,
I think we've reached a point where we
can say goodnight.
It's been really a lovely conversation.
I think we have pushed the threshold again
beyond anything that we had previously
considered.
I'd sort of like to play that song
again.
Kevin, if you can, as our close,
can you do that for us?
And we'll just let that song play.
And goodnight.
It's been a great discussion with
everybody.
And Kirk,
I'm particularly happy that you're on
more.
One more, man.
Hang on to those four hairs, baby.
Keep that smile.
Yeah, man.
Come Tuesday when there are no more,
we might have an adult beverage and do
a toast.
That sounds like a...
I am ready,
and you gain your strength back,
and that should be a marvelous process.
Thank you for the kind words.
I appreciate it.
Yeah,
and I think that no matter what report
they give you, I'd say, you know,
I'm good.
Thanks very much.
I appreciate all the help.
I'm glad we gave it the big whack,
but I'm good.
Thank you.
We'll go on from here.
All right.
And Dr. Jeff, you can contradict me.
You're a million times smarter on this
than I am.
But anyway,
it's just my buddy to buddy chat.
Kirk, keep away from doctors, brother.
You're eternal.
Yeah, you're eternal.
All right, well, thank you, Will,
for joining us.
It's great to have you as part of
this program.
I loved your insight on always being on
edge.
It's something that I hadn't considered,
and I'm actually now comfortable with it
because that is really how our
relationship with Yahowah has been over
this last year and a half, hasn't it?
Yeah, it's exciting.
Yeah, I think it's great.
JB, always wonderful.
Dr. Jeff, you are the best.
Kirk, next time Pebble Beach, man,
maybe Cypress Point.
And Kevin,
can't wait to do another vlog on the
blog with you.
The last one was by far our best.
We're much more assertive.
It's tough when you have somebody that
talks as much as I am and you
did a great job.
I was really pleased with the last show
that we did.
I'd like to do another one.
I think if they don't start,
even if they start the war with Iran,
I did a twenty minute narrative on
on the impending war with Iran,
I want to talk about all the things
that people aren't discussing and why it
is such a concern and why at this
point,
at just three months from the time of
Israel's trouble,
that Israel shouldn't be stirring up
trouble.
You're going to have enough already and
this is not going to help you,
particularly under the present
circumstances with us having
uh China and Russia and opposition and
your only ally is uh the um the
rahab this is not good all right Qara
says you know i want to talk on
that microphone oh thank you thank you
thank you oh we're gonna do kisses oh
Qara's favorite is the wet willy are you
guys familiar with the wet willy that is
that that is the tongue in the ear
oh man this one this one every morning
you've got to do the
That's Qara's favorite thing.
Oh, yeah,
that's her way of saying I love you
and getting your attention.
Okay there, sweetness.
So you want to get down?
Okay,
we're going to go play the song again.
That's hard on microphones, but...
We don't have a big enough base for
that microphone,
but it's the only way to keep...
If you get the big bases,
then they sit up really high and you
look pretty stupid if you're having to
strain to look over the microphone.
And I don't like those long arms that
they have.
I just think they're kind of ugly.
So this is just a diminutive and it
sets it down in a kind of a
low way,
but it becomes very tippy is the negative
with it.
And they don't like...
hitting glass tables.
No,
that had to be hard on your ears
as you were trying to survive that.
I just,
as long as we don't hear the crash
of glass.
Oh,
I thought he'd be more worried about the
mic than the table.
I actually had this piece of glass custom
made for me right here on this Island.
It's a, it's one inch thick,
thick tempered glass.
And so it's really an excellent piece.
And I had to do it because the
room I put it in,
I wanted the curve on the outside and
the clipped edges on it and the straight
back.
And so it's actually a design that I
drew up and had made here.
So I think it's pretty much impervious to
harm.
I really like glass tabletops.
I just think they're kind of neat.
This is a really very,
very contemporary desk.
Everything that we designed in this house
is super contemporary.
But you look at the old tree in
the sea.
I can maybe duck down there.
There you go.
There's the...
It's now been framed.
We're going to find a home for it.
I think it's going to go on the
master eventually,
but I'm enjoying having it here.
And the very fact that I'm a really,
really, really old tree,
at least fifty six hundred years old,
maybe maybe older than I am from the
sea.
I just think that the whole metaphor there
of the old tree and the sea,
along with the rocks.
uh that that combination rocks and old
tree uh at uh that one speaks to
me too that's where they go yeah yeah
well yeah so we're gonna we're gonna have
adult beverages here and yeah and they're
along the uh the way too uh but
uh for those that don't know kirk painted
that picture it's uh on the carmel coast
and uh it is an old old cypress
tree it's called the cocktail tree but
it's an old old old cypress tree uh
beautiful rocks in the sea and uh
we uh we had a uh a debate
as to where it was going to show
up i told him i wanted it in
the wall where this other picture is that
so i could look at it and enjoy
the fact that he painted that and that
he lives in carmel and uh we had
this debate and uh and you didn't best
me but your wife did
And she came up with, yeah, man,
she said,
my husband is already well hung around our
house and therefore it's going to you.
And at that point,
I just knew that I had nothing that
I could add to the equation.
It was over.
I was done.
Thank you very much.
There's the picture.
You get to see it when we do
these shows, but there's the picture,
and your wife prevails.
I will never try to out-debate Sylvia.
All right, my friends,
we're going to play the song.
Good night.
Thank you, Will.
Thank you, my friend, JB.
Thank you, Dr. Jeff Kirk.
It's always wonderful to see you, Kevin.
And there he is,
the king of the cables.
And I appreciate your contribution to the
show and getting us launched and
everything.
Without Rich, we would not be here,
this show.
It's a little bit of everybody,
but I did go look up...
God confides in the set apart.
Yes.
Go check out Mizmowr
twenty five, fourteen, twenty five,
fourteen.
It's also says the same thing.
Yeah.
Oh, sowd again, huh?
Yep.
Wow.
um yeah it's and you may have kind
of yeah would have passed over it the
first time but yeah the sowd of Yahowah
so it's also on the well you know
what we're ultimately uh doing here is uh
we're getting uh Claude as as our LLM
uh to uh be trained uh to um
answer questions for people on the website
so that you can ask.
And he will have read and processed every
book.
He will have challenged every translation.
He will have either validated or
invalidated every conclusion and is in a
position that he will be able to answer
questions.
And so one of the processes we're in
right now is having Ask Claude.
We'll probably give him a different name.
any question you want about Yahowah or any
any one of the religions Judaism Islam
Christianity and you know is it is it
true does this word really mean that is
this conclusion was Dowd actually the the
Mashyach is that case made um we will
have um Claude well prepared we're
building uh Claude's vocabulary right now
and our our challenge there is that
There really was only one place where
there was a differentiation between the
Ayin and the Aleph in a transliteration,
and that was the oldest version of
Strong's, which does not appear online,
that used a backwards and forward
quotation mark to differentiate the Ayin
and the Aleph.
And so I just used a quotation mark
because word processes quotation marks
very, very strangely.
And and now I don't know if you
guys were looking at what I sent you,
but I'm now using a superscript of the
and the left to designate the letter.
So it's it's clear.
because they have very different meanings.
One is the rams and the bull's head,
and the other is the eye for
perceptiveness.
So one's leadership,
the other one's perceptiveness.
And it's interesting to see which words
are based on which letter.
And when we do that, then we can...
do more than just present a glossary.
We can link the glossary to the
translation.
So you can click on any word in
the translation,
it'll bring you to the meaning,
but you can't do that until you do
an identification of those words,
either to the Strong's lexicon,
which is not the best,
but at least it's available to scrape,
plus your definitions, Kirk,
and my definitions,
and you put them together,
and you have a glossary.
But
If you can use it so that you
can click on the words in the presentation
of the translations,
then it's even more valuable.
And you can't do that without identifying
which word it is based upon.
Was it an ayin or an aleph?
And you can't tell that from my
transliterations because I used just a an
apostrophe.
And the apostrophes are in different
places.
For example,
if it's the first letter of a
transliteration,
it goes before the letter.
Every place else,
it goes after the letter.
And so there's just so many strangenesses
of it.
Then you look at something like a shin,
the sin, actually,
which isn't even a letter in paleo-Hebrew,
and the samech.
They're both S's.
So how do you differentiate one from the
other?
How do you tell which one it is?
How do you differentiate the taw from the
theth?
Which both are Ts.
And so we have to go through and
the translations and identify either a
Strong's number or identify the whether
it's the which one of those letters it
is.
for us to be able to link from
the translation to a definition.
And so we're working on that in our
spare time.
And it's not as easy as you might
think.
There's a reason that no one's ever
attempted to do what we've done.
It isn't easy to do.
But that's a process we're engaged in too.
But you can go to now the yadayawa.com
site or yadayawa.com is really replete
with a wonderful translation search and
got all these songs now up in it.
We'll soon have these promos,
which are so much fun and so interesting,
like the dancing Abraham with Sarah coming
out of Babylon.
It's just so much fun.
But all of them are just great.
And we'll have those presented.
And of course,
all thirty five books are presented in
three different ways on the site.
And we have the blog on the site
that is kept current with the X and
YouTube and Facebook.
And we have the blogs that are current,
both in shorts and longs,
primarily featured from YouTube and played
on the site.
So you remain on the site while they're
coming from YouTube.
We have the twenty
Some social media platforms that were on
and conveying this message.
There's a lot to that site.
It is really developed spectacularly.
So we thank our good friend, Joe,
for doing that.
Yep.
All right.
Well, thank you.
We'll play the outro.
It will be our song of the sea
and the song of love of the sea.
Thank you, everyone.
Happy Shabbat.
Good night.
Shabbat Shalowm.
From then to now
But her presence Not that kind of love
that closes in Or asks to stay the
same This love moves mountains,
it carries seas But we couldn't hold your
heart loose
Hey there, thanks for tuning in.
That was Fetch.
Gotta run now.
Catch y'all on our next podcast.